Mishneh Torah for iOS

The Mishneh Torah, the first comprehensive code of Jewish law, was composed by Maimonides (1135-1204), one of history’s most preeminent Rabbis. I revitalized the Mishneh Torah for the 21st century, profiting thousands of dollars. Design is key along with search, bookmark, browsing, and sharing features. I have continued updating the app through iOS7.  

--

Jewish Treats for iOS

In an effort to give my skills back to the community, I independently built the Jewish Treats app as community service for the National Jewish Outreach Program. Updated daily, Jewish Treats shares interesting and enjoyable observations about Judaism, or as we call them: Juicy Bits of Judaism;.

--

Selichot for iOS

Developed just in time for the holidays, the Selichot app includes Jewish prayers recited before the high holidays of Yom Kippur and Rosh HaShana. Interactive bilingual features and design were included. This app was another adventure in bringing Jewish culture to the 21st century.

--

iWillNotProcrastinate for iOS

iWillNotProcrastinate helps you to determine in which classes you procrastinate the most! Use iWillNotProcrastinate to isolate the problem, work on it, and track your progress over time! After studying, challenge your friends through Facebook to find out who procrastinates the least!

--

Invited TED Talk

In September 2012, I was invited to speak to >1000 people at TEDxRedmond at Microsoft Headquarters in Redmond, Washington. I spoke about Shaping the Mind: Ancient Hebraic Texts and how my studies of history and literature have inspired and propelled my scientific pursuits.

-- 

Rapid Aging Control

When we get older, our cell growth slows. In my project, I harnessed this aging process to treat diseases. By understanding rapid aging, I 'aged' cancer to stop its growth. Conversely, I slowed the rapid aging of artificially-generated stem cells. I also demonstrate applications to other age-related diseases such as Parkinson's and diabetes.

--

Publications

1. Meier, J., Calabro, A., Queenan, C., & Pergolizzi, R. (2013). The missing genome: mitochondrial DNA deletions in stem cells. Microsc Microanal, 19(Suppl 2), 24-25.
2. Meier, J. (2013). Fly genes of the past: the future of cancer research? NJ Assoc Biomed Res. Retrieved from http://www.curiousyoungwriters.org/2013/05/25/fly-genes-of-the-past-the-future-of-cancer-research/.
3. Meier, J. (2013). U.S. Patent Application No. 61,841,918. Washington, DC: U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.
4. Invited to 3 Gordon Research Conferences (including as keynote presenter).
5. Cell Stem Cell - Presubmission Inquiry was sent; submission to journal was encouraged.

Other Activities

Besides for these scientific endeavors, I am also involved in other school / outreach activities. I founded the BCA Israel Club, training the second and third place national Bible Contest winners. I am also captain of my school's Mock Trial, Model UN, and Debate Teams. I also spearheaded the independent Meier-Lau Academy, to take students to prestigious Model UN competitions. Passionate about music, I have played piano since age four. 